So let's talk about what a PM does
because I get this question a lot.
It's like, okay, you're a product manager,
what the hell does that actually mean?
And one, I actually don't know, [LAUGH].
It's strongly varies by which company
you're at, and strongly varies by
the context that you're in and
what's necessarily and what's needed.
So I'm gonna give you throw
out some definitions,
I'm gonna tell you a lot
of things that a PM is not.
But a lot of time the PM just ends
up being glue that holds the team
together, right?
Your team needs X so you jump in and do X,
they need marketing that there has been
times where I've actually jumped in and
helped with the coding sprints
because I can write code.
I've done a lot of things in
the name of product management.
I've taken sales calls before.
There's tons of stuff
that a PM end up doing.
There was one time I
literally wouldn't worked.
I don't think I can say
the name of the company but
I was embedded at a company for a week
helping them implement my product, right?
For a company that you've
definitely heard of.
I've done sales calls with Disney.
That was pretty cool.
There's all sorts of really
fun things that PMs get to do.
There's also lots of really
dumb stuff that PMs get to do.
So we'll talk about that too.
So, the first thing I wanted to call
out here is I'm gonna say PM a lot and
it's written a lot here.
And I'm gonna use that in
reference to product manager.
But there's a lot of jobs that
have the initialization PM.
And I'm just gonna say they have
equal rights to the name PM.
I'm not claiming that in
the name of the product manager.
It's just habit and it's outside.
I don't wanna say product manager
that much it's too many syllables.
That said, do usually see refer to
either program or product managers.
But I'm just disclaiming that so
I don't get angry comments.
I'm still gonna get angry comments, but
at least I tell him like I told you so.
Okay.
So, throughout this course I will try and
answer what a PM is and what a PM does.
But right now we're gonna go into
find some other jobs first so
that we can kind of bound what I
think a product manager should be.
So like I said before,
this varies so much by company.
What a PM at Google does is extremely
different than what a PM at Apple does,
and it's extremely different than what
a PM at Facebook and Microsoft and
all those companies do.
So, it's extremely contextual to
the company, and even to the position.
PM is a Microsoft.
I have obviously worked there, so
I have a lot of experience there.
What they do in one division of
Microsoft is extremely different
from a different division.
So let's go through some other job titles,
some other PM job titles and
talk about what they do, and
hopefully that'll illuminate a little
bit what a product manager might do.
So the first obvious one
is project manager, and
this is the job that I
hate getting called.
They're extremely important, and
I'm very happy it's not my job.
But when people are like, hey, Brian,
you're a project manager, I'm like,
I don't want to be called that, [LAUGH].
And it's not that I have anything
against PMs or against project managers.
I think they're extremely important.
I just don't wanna do that job.
So a project manager is someone
that drives alignment in
a huge organization by process, right?
So they're the ones that
are managing sprints.
They're the ones that are going
through and managing tickets.
They're the ones doing reports on,
we closed this many tickets this week.
We have this developer velocity.
You can call them gyro jockeys.
That's what I do, [LAUGH].
They are very important, but
it's very process oriented.
It's very much in the mechanics
of who's assigned what ticket,
when are they going to complete it.
They keep teams on task, on timelines.
They're frequently Scrum Masters and
agile certified, and it's not what I do.
And again, they're important.
I'm happy that to work with them.
But if I had to do that job, I just
wouldn't be happy one because I'm not good
at it and two is I'm just not
a very processed person right.
Now that being said,
particularly when your team doesn't
have a designated project manager.
The product manager frequently ends up
taking on a lot of these responsibilities.
That's snowflake.
That's a big part of my responsibilities
is some project management because
we don't have enough project managers
to share around Snowflake and
my team doesn't get access to one.
But even then, I kinda split that
with my engineering manager, right?
So it's not just me being
total project manager,
we kinda split it across multiple people.
And you'll find that this is actually
a common thing with product managers is,
your team will need some role
that doesn't exist yet, and so
the product manager will
kinda end up filling that.
This is what I'm talking about when the
product manager is the glue of the team.
I've had to do designs before and
I'm not a designer.
There's stuff like that.
So project managers are critical in
large companies because you have so
many different teams moving in different
directions, and the project managers kind
of keep them moving and aligned is
>> Project manager synonymous with
delivery manager?
>> So when I hear delivery manager,
I equate that with release manager.
That's the position that I
worked with at Microsoft.
It wasn't equivalent at Microsoft.
So the release manager basically is like,
you have dot NET,
this massive project that
has these big releases, and
they're the kinda ones deciding,
like, what makes this really use?
When is it gonna go out?
How are we gonna manage that going out?
And the project manager was kinda the
person that was managing all the sprints
to get there.
So you'd kinda have those two positions
working closely together to figure out
when work was gonna be delivered and
when they can be released together and
those kinds of things.
I could see at maybe a smaller company
those being the same position, but for
me in that one experience, it's the only
release manager I've ever worked with.
It was not the same position.
>> Kinda drawing the spaces.
It seems to me anyway, that when you're
trying to draw a line between project
product management and
the other concerns that revolve there.
Product management is more
concerned with a longer
timeline in general project management.
I think that you already said
this is moving downfield, but
the strategy of that movement is
largely on the product side because you
project management is generally not tasked
with scoping timelines on long terms.
Or at least outside of
specific units of work.
>> I think you're getting to the what I
hope to arrive to which is, the project
manager is more concerned with the
mechanics of what is getting done when,
and the product manager is only concerned
with like, what are we building?
What things are we gonna build one, and
then you kind of work with like
one of those things and to go out.
And so I always framed my product
management and it's like,
what are we doing now?
What are we doing soon?
What are we doing later, right?
And so you're right,
we have that longer-term arc,
longer-term vision strategy.
I'm literally writing a strategy doc
right now for my organization, right?
So I end up writing
a lot of strategy docs.
It's more concerned with what are we
gonna build for our people, or for
our users that we're concerned with.
Yeah, I think you're right.